Kwe kwe, my name is Isabelle Dallaire.
At first glance, I am sure that many of you are probably wondering, well, what is she doing here?
It is a platform for Indigenous employees.
She doesn't even look Indigenous.
That thought is exactly why I decided to share a bit of my story with you today,
because I'm convinced that it is through open discuss that we will change things.
One small thing at a time.
Prejudices and stereotypes of the typical image of an Indigenous person are totally normal
since you have been taught these preconceived notions for most of your life.
Be gentle with yourself.
The feeling of guilt that you sometimes feel is normal.
Today, I invite you to reflect on your way of thinking to better understand the repercussions
that these preconceived ideas can have on Indigenous Peoples in the long term.
The way I dress, the color of my hair or the complexion of my skin has nothing to do
with the percentage of Indigenous blood that I possess and that runs through my veins.
Today, I want to help you to become a good ally, to trust you and your empathy,
because it is this that will help you make the right choices and have positive reflections
on how to ally yourself so that together, we continue this evolution, that we change this way of thinking.
Let's take action together today.
In my case, the impostor syndrome is often present.
At meetings, at gatherings, during public speaking, among others.
The comments, for the most part, are based on my physical appearance which is considered non-Indigenous.
Every time, it makes me want to become very small and hide.
And yet, my voice is loud, it is filled with courage, it is filled with strength, with resilience.
And I do everything I can to educate people by teaching courses on Indigenous culture.
By taking the time to educate myself on the issues and standing up when certain comments can be hurtful so that it does not happen to others.
I want to tell you that I am hopeful, because every day, as part of my duties as a Human Resources Advisor,
on the Indigenous Employee Talent and Career Development team, many will ask me how can I be a good ally.
Simple. Be humble.
Be curious. Get informed.
Recognize as you do today that you cannot know everything, and that
there is always room for improvement in our own education about Indigenous Peoples.
Every community is different.
I hope that my video today has inspired you want to take a few minutes to reflect and also recognize your good work as an ally.
It's important to do it.
It's important to congratulate yourself.
I will end by saying, Kwé kwé, I am Isabelle Dallaire, I am a woman, I am blond with blue eyes,
Francophone, Indigenous and I proudly come from the Maliseet community of Viger in Cacouna.
My hope is that you, in turn, will be proud of your choice to be an ally.
Be real.
Be you.
Be human.
Woliwon.
Thank you.